Night of January 16th is a play by Russian-American author Ayn Rand, inspired by the death of Ivar Kreuger, an industrialist and accused swindler known as the Match King. The play is set in a courtroom during a murder trial, and members of the audience are chosen to play the jury. The court hears the case of Karen Andre, a former secretary and lover of businessman Bjorn Faulkner, of whose murder she is accused. The jury must rely on character testimony to decide whether Andre is guilty; the play's ending depends on their verdict. Rand wanted to dramatize a conflict between individualism and conformity. The play was first produced in 1934 in Los Angeles under the title Woman on Trial. Producer Al Woods took it to Broadway for the 1935–36 season and re-titled it Night of January 16th. It became a hit and ran for seven months. The play has been adapted as a movie, as well as for television and radio. Rand had many disputes with Woods over the play, and in 1968 re-edited it for publication as her "definitive" version. (Full article...)
Recently featured: The Pale Emperor Interstate 275 (Michigan) Jersey Act
Archive By email More featured articles...
Did you know...
Chrysler Building
Chrysler Building
... that the 90% purchase of New York's Chrysler Building (pictured) by the Abu Dhabi Investment Council was a prominent example of petrodollar recycling?
... that following a collision, HMS Negro sank after two depth charges from HMS Hoste tore open its hull?
... that Mildred Albert, nicknamed the "Mighty Atom", produced thousands of fashion shows during her career?
... that the Rifa-e-Aam Club in Lucknow was open to everybody at a time when British clubs excluded Indians?
... that David Kahalekula Kaʻauwai, his father and brother served in the Kingdom of Hawaii legislature, while his niece became a princess?
... that following the success of the album Barney Bentall and the Legendary Hearts, the eponymous Canadian band received the 1989 Juno Award for Most Promising Group of the Year?
... that BuzzFeed described Pat Loika as "the closest thing comics has to an Oprah"?
Recently improved articles Start a new article Nominate an article
In the news
Zhou Youguang in 2012
Zhou Youguang
Chinese linguist Zhou Youguang (pictured), creator of the pinyin system for writing Chinese in Latin letters, dies at the age of 111.
Passenger services are inaugurated on the Addis Ababa–Djibouti Railway, a fast electric railway connecting the Ethiopian capital to the Gulf of Aden.
A cold wave affecting Eastern and Central Europe causes more than 60 deaths.
La La Land wins a record-breaking seven awards at the Golden Globe Awards.
Ongoing: Battle of Mosul
Recent deaths: Jimmy Snuka Magic Alex Lord Snowdon William Peter Blatty
On this day...
January 16: Martin Luther King Jr. Day in the United States (2017)

Painting of the Battle of Cape St. Vincent
Battle off Cape St Vincent, 16 January 1780 by Francis Holman
1362 – The Danish settlement of Rungholt was reportedly sunk into the North Sea by a massive windstorm.
1780 – Anglo-Spanish War: The British Royal Navy gained their first major naval victory over their European enemies in the war when they defeated a Spanish squadron in the Battle of Cape St. Vincent (pictured).
1920 – The League of Nations, the first intergovernmental organisation whose principal mission was to maintain world peace, held its first council meeting in Paris.
1942 – TWA Flight 3 crashed into Potosi Mountain in Nevada, killing actress Carole Lombard and all of the other 21 people on board.
1964 – The musical Hello, Dolly! opened at the St. James Theatre on Broadway, and went on to win ten Tony Awards, a record that stood for 37 years.
More anniversaries: January 15 January 16 January 17
Archive By email List of historical anniversaries
Current date: January 16, 2017 (UTC) Reload this page
From today's featured list
The accolades received by Grand Theft Auto V, an open world, action-adventure video game developed by Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games, include appearances on year-end lists of the best games of 2013. Grand Theft Auto V received Game of the Year wins from CNET, Edge, the Golden Joystick Awards, Machinima's Inside Gaming, the Spike VGX, Slant Magazine and Time. It was awarded the title of Most Immersive Game at the Inside Gaming Awards, and the Best British Game from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA). Rockstar Games and Rockstar North won Best Studio and Best Developer from Edge, and the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award at the 10th British Academy Video Games Awards. Various in-game elements were recognised with awards. Two characters, Trevor Philips and Lamar Davis, received multiple nominations for Best Character. The music received awards from the Spike VGX, Hardcore Gamer and The Daily Telegraph. (Full list...)
Recently featured: NBA territorial pick Jessica Chastain on screen and stage Awards and nominations received by Lecrae
Archive More featured lists...
Today's featured picture
Taurus–Littrow
A panoramic view of Taurus–Littrow taken in December 1972, during the Apollo 17 lunar mission. This lunar valley is located on the near side of the Moon, along a ring of mountains on the southeastern edge of Mare Serenitatis. Toward the right, geologist–astronaut Harrison Schmitt prepares to take a sample. Data collected on Apollo 17 show that the valley is composed primarily of feldspar-rich breccia in the large massifs surrounding the valley and basalt underlying the valley floor, covered by an unconsolidated layer of regolith, or mixed materials, formed by various geologic events.

Photograph: Eugene Cernan

Recently featured: Taj Mahal Berthe Morisot with a Bouquet of Violets View from the Artist's Window
Archive More featured pictures...
Other areas of Wikipedia
Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas.
Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia.
Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English.
Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects.
Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation.
Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies.
Wikipedia's sister projects
Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects:

Commons	Commons
Free media repository	MediaWiki	MediaWiki
Wiki software development	Meta-Wiki	Meta-Wiki
Wikimedia project coordination
Wikibooks	Wikibooks
Free textbooks and manuals	Wikidata	Wikidata
Free knowledge base	Wikinews	Wikinews
Free-content news
Wikiquote	Wikiquote
Collection of quotations	Wikisource	Wikisource
Free-content library	Wikispecies	Wikispecies
Directory of species
Wikiversity	Wikiversity
Free learning materials and activities	Wikivoyage	Wikivoyage
Free travel guide	Wiktionary	Wiktionary
Dictionary and thesaurus
Wikipedia languages
This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001, it currently contains 5,330,385 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.

More than 1,000,000 articles: Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Русский Svenska Tiếng Việt
More than 250,000 articles: العربية Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Català Čeština Euskara فارسی 한국어 Magyar Norsk bokmål Português Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe Українська 中文
More than 50,000 articles: Bosanski Български Dansk Eesti Ελληνικά English (simple form) Esperanto Galego עברית Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvių Norsk nynorsk Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย
Complete list of Wikipedias
Navigation menu
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog inMain PageTalkReadView sourceView historySearch

Search Wikipedia
Go
Main page
Contents
Featured content
Current events
Random article
Donate to Wikipedia
Wikipedia store
Interaction
Help
About Wikipedia
Community portal
Recent changes
Contact page
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Special pages
Permanent link
Page information
Wikidata item
Print/export
Create a book
Download as PDF
Printable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
MediaWiki
Meta-Wiki
Wikispecies
Wikibooks
Wikidata
Wikinews
Wikiquote
Wikisource
Wikiversity
Wikivoyage
Languages
Simple English
العربية
Bahasa Indonesia
Bahasa Melayu
Bosanski
Български
Català
Čeština
Dansk
Deutsch
Eesti
Ελληνικά
Español
Esperanto
Euskara
فارسی
Français
Galego
한국어
עברית
Hrvatski
Italiano
ქართული
Latviešu
Lietuvių
Magyar
Nederlands
日本語
Norsk bokmål
Norsk nynorsk
Polski
Português
Română
Русский
Slovenčina
Slovenščina
Српски / srpski
Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
Suomi
Svenska
ไทย
Tiếng Việt
Türkçe
Українська
中文
Complete list
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.